
nodemon?
npm install -g nodemon

function of nodemon?
nodemon is a tool that helps develop node.js based applications by automatically restarting the node application when file changes in the directory are detected.


what does npm init does?
npm init is a way to set up a new or existing npm package. It will ask you a bunch of questions, and then write a package.json for you.
npm init -y

date-fns
npm install date-fns
explain date-fns
date-fns provides the most comprehensive, yet simple and consistent toolset for manipulating JavaScript dates in a browser & Node.js.

if one would to clone a project from github, it has a package.json file, and not the node_modules folder, what should one do?
npm install , it will install all the dependencies in the package.json file

npm i nodemon -D, why we do this
-D flag is used to save the package as a devDependency. This means that the package is only needed during development, and not during runtime.

scripts in package.json, what is it for?
The "scripts" property of your package.json file is a way to define a set of node scripts that you can run using npm. This can be useful for a variety of things, such as running tests, setting up your development environment, or running your application.
example:
"scripts": {
    "start": "node index.js",
    "test": "mocha"
  }


uuid package, what is it for?
npm install uuid
UUID (Universally Unique Identifier) is a 128-bit number used to uniquely identify some object or entity on the Internet.
why and how we use it?
const { v4: uuidv4 } = require('uuid');
console.log(uuidv4());
1b9d6bcd-bbfd-4b2d-9b5d-ab8dfbbd4c1d

^10.0.0 in package.json, what does it mean?
1st number mean? major version, it will update the major version
2nd number mean? minor version, it will update the minor version
3rd number mean? patch version, it will update the patch version
^ means it will update the major version, but not the minor and patch version
~ means it will update the major and minor version, but not the patch version
* means it will update all the version

if i want to install specific version of a package, how do i do it?
npm install package@version
npm install lodash@4.17.21

npm update, what does it do?
npm update will update all the packages in the package.json file

npm outdated, what does it do?
npm outdated will show all the outdated packages in the package.json file

npm uninstall, what does it do?
npm uninstall package_name
npm uninstall lodash

npm rm, what does it do?, what is the difference between npm uninstall and npm rm?
npm rm package_name
npm rm lodash





